the moment the East India Trading Company introduced British opium to China, the Qing people were instantly hooked. Throughout the 1830s, officials debated whether it was wiser to legalize and regulate or to prohibit the drug that was smoked by officials and soldiers, gentry and peasants, alike, in such demand that it was steadily depleting the country of funds. After years of concentrating the majority of the world’s silver in China in exchange for tea, fine silks, and exotic porcelain, the trade balance had finally tipped in Britain’s favor. In 1839, the Qing court decreed that opium would be prohibited, and sent Commissioner Lin Zexu to Guangzhou to put a stop to the trade. Lin took advantage of the fact that Guangzhou was the very few ports open to trade with Westerners, and confiscated and destroyed three million pounds of stored opium, forcing merchants to pledge not to sell the drug in the future. The British, faced with the option of losing their monetary advantage or resorting to smuggling, took the destruction of their merchants’ property as a personal insult. The next year, a large British force sailed from Singapore, bombarding and subjugating Qing settlements with ease as it made its way toward the capital, eventually extorting a treaty drastically altering China’s foreign policy. The treaty of Nanjing began the process of exploitation by granting unequal treatment, establishing British control over Chinese affairs, and instigating a wave of jealousy amongst imperialists that caused them to join in.
The rights that the British granted themselves in the treaty allowed them to yoke the Chinese economy by abolishing the rights of the Qing to control their own monetary system. The terms of the agreement forced China to set and publish tariff rates on imports and exports, and "ensured that tariffs favored [the British],". By setting its own tax rates, Britain was maintain the balance of trade tipped in its favor. Holding rates of customs constant on the Chinese side uncoupled them from the competitive market system, as they could no longer rise and fall with the financial needs of the empire. With their tax burdens cancelled out, British merchants were able to raise the price of their opium, which was in enormous demand, beyond what was possible before, siphoning silver out of the country and into their pockets. To make matters worse, the British demanded the abolition of the Cohong merchant guild, which allowed the Chinese government to collect a portion of the revenue from trade with foreign powers. With the Hong system destroyed, the Qing government had no way to collect on the trade that was being forced upon them. Instead, British merchants "claimed the right to do business with anyone they chose". This permitted them to seek out the highest bidder on their merchandise, which included the opium on which countless addicts depended. Drug dealers now held the power to manipulate their own prices, knowing that addicts were helpless to stop using their product. This ability of the British to freeze their expenses while driving their profits upward allowed them to control the Chinese economy and build a positive trade balance for themselves.
Although Britain forced the Chinese to grant them certain rights, one might argue that those rights were necessary in order to protect its citizens instead of exploit the Qing people. The year after the treaty was signed, however, the British arrived with a follow-up, which "gave British nationals extraterritorial rights in all disputes with Chinese merchants,". For British citizens, being brought back from China to be tried in their own national courts, as extraterritoriality implied, could take months and was likely to decided in their favor by judges exhibiting the same fierce nationalism that was sweeping the West. Thanks to extraterritoriality, foreigners in China became impervious to Qing law, so the Chinese had no power to control them. Chinese citizens, on the other hand, were granted no such concessions in Britain, where they were brutally mistreated due to their weaker government. This disparity between enforcement of law gave British nationals first-class citizenship in both their homeland and in China, along with license to commit theft, blackmail, and even trade opium, which was previously actively prohibited in China. Despite its justification as protecting citizens from so-called barbaric Chinese laws, extraterritoriality had the effect of taking power over British operations in China away from the Qing government. Rather than protecting the rights of their nationals, the British had found a way in which they could make their merchants impervious to the will of the Chinese government, so they continue to drain the country’s coffers without intervention.
In addition to their one-sided privileges, the British made their authority over Chinese economic and political affairs indisputable by extending their influence into territories in and around the nation. After the war, Britain gained the island of Hong Kong "to be governed by such laws and regulations as Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain [...] shall see fit to direct,". In seizing this land, the British had gained a colony with which, on top of refitting and resupplying its navy, it could keep close watch over the Chinese people. Within days, British ships could be dispatched from Hong Kong and arrive at Nanjing, placing the Qing under perpetual duress which could be used to impose further conditions on them. The British agreed to remove their forces from Nanjing with the condition that they could remain close by and reoccupy the city at any given moment, which established them as the benefactors of an imbalance of power, created to impose unequal terms on the Chinese. Likewise, superintendents were appointed in certain cities, opened by the treaty for trade, for the purpose of "[being] the medium of communication between the Chinese authorities and the said merchants, and to see that the just duties and other dues of the Chinese Government [...] are duly discharged by her Britannic Majesty’s subjects". By design, these superintendents were stationed in order to ensure the compliance of the Chinese Government with British demands. Keeping in touch with the British government from the inside, the superintendents were effectively informants for the Queen that were protected by the treaty against prosecution for espionage. Using these informants, the British could gather information about Chinese tactics and plans which could be used to defeat them in the future, and also ensure that Qing rulers did not attempt to break free of the shackles that had been placed on their nation by violating the treaty. By establishing control over areas close to Nanjing, Britain was able to exert power over China without the political and military complications of conquering a such a widespread nation.
Despite the drastic measures they took, some may assert that the British imposed them seeking to repair the damage done to their own empire by the costs of war. Though they did spend a significant amount of money on the war, it was a war based on the Chinese right to prohibit the sale of opium within their own borders. In addition to war reparations, Queen Victoria demanded from the emperor "the sum of 6,000,000 of dollars, as the value of the opium which was delivered up at Canton in the month of March, 1839". The opium that Lin destroyed had been illegal since 1729, more than a hundred years before the commissioner took a stand against the trade. The British had enough time to realize that what they were doing was illegal in China, yet still demanded reimbursement for merchandise that they were not permitted to sell. In doing so, they demonstrated their intention to use opium as an economic instrument to restore them to the superior side of the trade balance. The drug was wreaking havoc in China, with over two million Chinese addicts hooked on the product. Thanks to opium’s addictive qualities, demand for opium would only increase, regardless of its detrimental effects on the body, so prohibition was the emperor’s only option to bring an end to its influence over his subjects. Taking advantage of their superior military power, the British blasted their way to Nanjing, where they put an end to the emperor’s restrictions on trade. With weaponry more advanced than that of the Chinese and a navy renown throughout the world, the British managed to  guarantee themselves themselves the right to sell a highly addictive and illegal substance. Using the Opium War, the British were able to give themselves an economic edge, with which their profits quickly dwarfed the cost of the fighting, at the expense of Chinese prosperity.
In establishing themselves as dominant over Chinese trade, the British provoked the jealousy of their competing powers, which caused those powers to attempt to join in the lucrative exploitation of the Chinese economy. Soon after the Treaty of Nanjing was signed, the United States sought to share in the profit, "[negotiating] the Treaty of Wangxia (1844) under which, in addition to what was granted to the British, the Chinese conceded to a reduction in tonnage duties for U.S. ships, the right of internal navigation within Chinese waters, and more far-reaching extraterritorial rights,". Thanks to the most favored nation clause which the British had imposed earlier in 1844, these rights were instantly granted to all British subjects as well, making the United States and Britain suddenly higher than the rest of the world in terms of their taking advantage of China in its state of defeat. As imperialist nations, France, Belgium, Sweden, and Norway all felt slighted by this unequal exploitation, and all proceeded to sign similar treaties with China, all based on the British example. Though the British model was motivated by need to create markets in China for opium, the drug was illegal in the United States, so their intervention in China was based purely on envy. By the time all the treaties had leveled out using their most favored nation clauses, China’s economy was so crippled that it provoked the most violent and severe rebellion of the Qing dynasty, the Taiping rebellion. Having lost their faith in the Confucian value system that had lasted for nearly two thousand years, the Taiping adhered strictly to Christian teachings, hoping to transform China into a "Heavenly Kingdom of Great Peace,". The economic shackling of China that caused colossal unrest for the Chinese people occurred as a result of Western powers competing with one another to see which could gain the most at the expense of the Chinese people.
At the end of the Opium War, the Qing dynasty was in a state of vulnerability it had never experienced before. With the drug trade tying down its economy, China was ruthlessly taken advantage of, beginning with the Treaty of Nanjing. The treaty granted the British superior treatment and established their dominance over China. As imperialist nations grew envious, they too joined in, all profiting at China’s expense.
Poverty courses through the veins of T'an-ch'eng like a venom, infusing the county with lawlessness and despair. The affluent hide out in walled cities, withholding their means from the community and striving to produce worthy scholars in their own homes, while outlaws dominate the countryside. Raids by bandits deplete the resources of the farmers, while attacks by rebels drain the community of worthy husbands, fathers, and scholars. Peasants live without hope of ascending in the social hierarchy because they pay taxes many times what they can afford. Education is nonexistent due to incessant destruction of public facilities by one natural disaster after another. Will to live is scarce and suicide is a common escape from the drudgery of starvation and backbreaking labor, despite the dishonor it brings. True Confucian relationships have become a rarity because the gentry seal themselves off from the commoners, having abandoned their roles to protect and guide their inferiors. T'an-ch'eng county is a case beyond the hope of rehabilitation because overcentralization of the government and focus on ideals rather than practical notions have made the law impossible to enforce.
The centralization of the Ming government was to the point where it could no longer respond effectively to change on the smallest level, making it and ineffective in controlling its people. While the villagers of T'an-ch'eng are subjected constantly to disasters of both the natural and artificial variety, in order to obtain tax rebates or concessions on mandated labor, “one had to keep constantly pressing, for the government moved slowly, and as far as Peking was concerned, there were hundreds of T'an-ch'engs,”. Unfortunately, peasants whose morale had been shredded by catastrophe did not have the resources to wait for the magistrate to keep pressing, but instead had to pay taxes based on land which is no longer usable. Additionally, labor drafting forced citizens to take the places of workers who were still alive only in Peking's accounting books, instead of tending to their own farms and raising the money necessary to pay the year's taxes. By the time the government was able to respond with tax reductions or reduced labor requirements, the damage done by the disaster had already been compounded by subsequent raids and the debt accumulated by ruined farmers. With nowhere else to turn, victims sought to join gangs of bandits in order to find protection from taxes and raids, which only increased the rate of violence and the taxes that have to be paid by those who were unable to find protection. As more and more citizens began to rebel, my grip on the county began to slip, and soon order became impossible to enforce. 
Despite the central government's infectivity, it is common to argue that the magistrate is employed to govern his county independently of higher powers, so its state of affairs is his responsibility alone. Though I was assigned to govern T'an-ch'eng, widespread poverty had caused vast tracts of land to be “bought at cheap prices by landlords who [live] in I-chou, hence out of the [my] jurisdiction,”. Splitting their land between counties allowed the landowners to to avoid taxation both in T'an-ch'eng because they were residents of I-chou, impervious to my authority, and in I-chou because the land is listed as part of T'an-ch'eng. Using the reduced taxation as bait, landowners attracted huge followings of faithful households whose loyalties lay with them instead of the government. My obligation to generate the same revenue despite tax evasion forced me to elevate levies far beyond what bankrupt farmers could afford, exacerbating extreme hardship for those outside of proxy relationships and cementing the allegiance of those already involved. The practical need to be a part of such devoted followings tipped the balance of power in favor of the landlords, at the expense of my own control. With the influence they developed, the landlords had the means to protect their dishonest investments by presenting more resistance than could practically be overcome by any magistrate.
Ultimately, the Ming were more intent on disputing and refining ideals of the Confucian system than on fixing the underlying problems that undermined the dynasty's control over its subjects. When the Ming first realized their empire was in decline, but they could not come together to revitalize the dynasty. Instead, they "diagnosed the problems confronting the dynasty in moral terms and saw removing the immoral from power as the solution." At their end, the Ming addressed problems such as their bankruptcy by presenting them as if immorality were the cause of misery. Many people act in evil, not because they are wicked by nature, but because they do not know how to do so. Though there was once a school system in T'an-ch'eng to instill the virtues of Confucianism, but it has been repeatedly ravaged by floods and earthquakes, and is now too devastated for use. In attempting to correct the morals of a township by appointing righteous officials, as the Ming did, Confucian ideas were spread only to the relatively few who interacted them, but did not educate the populace. By investing in the schools, however, the Ming would have educated the populace, which in turn would have produced righteous officials. The reversal of cause and effect that the Ming applied to counties like T'an-ch'eng constrained them to make repairs from the top of society downward, which did not allow their officials to create effective change from the bottom up.
T'an-ch'eng county is a disaster in every sense of the word. Over the course of my years as magistrate, I have discovered that it is impossible to effectively enforce the law due to the distribution of power in the county. The governmental focus on ideals and the county's distance from the centers of power have allowed chaos to take hold, enabling the region to degenerate into a Confucian anarchy.
In the teachings of Confucius, the true gentleman is a man of the noble character and a teacher of the Way. In every action he takes, in his work, in his home, in his speech, he must exemplify the Way. It is the responsibility of the gentleman to educate himself, and to rectify his behavior at the expense of his money and of his image if he should find himself in conflict with the Way. In his interactions, he is expected to associate only with followers of the Way, and to display reverence for the mandate of Heaven, the great sages, and to the rituals he is obligated to perform. In personifying the Way, the gentleman becomes a walking example from which the petty man can learn, and soon he too can become a gentleman.
To maintain his example, the gentleman must always portray the utmost integrity in his mannerisms. When he does work, the gentleman must concern himself with whether his skill will suffice for the task, rather than whether the task will suffice for his ego. He must be humble and sincere in his dealings, abiding by the rules of decorum as he goes about them. He first must concern himself first with avoiding temptation and lust as a young man. As a grown man, he must refrain from altercations with his fellow men. When he grows old, the gentleman must keep himself from envy of the younger and more able men that embody the strength he once held. By doing so, he keeps himself true to the Way, and to his title of gentleman.
As a representative of the teachings of Confucius, the gentleman must conduct himself according to the virtues of humility and humanity. The gentleman must not seek to stuff himself when he eats, nor to profit when he works. Instead, he must be kind and follow the Way. From afar, the gentleman appears majestic, yet upon further inspection he is amiable. He is solid in all of his sayings and dignified in all of his actions. In this way, a gentleman may command respect, and his teachings will stand the test of time.
While politicians and religious leaders talked up a storm about liberty and virtue en route to their promised land of New England, the thousands of African souls sacrificed for their profit made a much more hellish journey. Between 1627 and 1700, 134,000 black slaves were delivered to Barbados to work the acres upon acres of sugarcane that fueled the colonial economy. Together, Jamaica, Antigua, and the other Leeward Islands received just as many. While New Englanders developed a sweet tooth and an incredible rum habit, Caribbean planters developed their plantations and the depth of their pockets, all for the low price of basic human decency. The resulting triangle trade became a blood-money profit-turning machine for West African slavers, planters in the West Indies, and New England farmers, yet somehow when history is written, the latter is typically left out. Although they did not make the bulk of their profit selling slaves, nor employing them for hard labor, the New England colonies' quiet participation quite literally fed the entire operation. While their more directly involved counterparts usually take the fall for the evils of slavery, the New England colonists actually played the most vital role in keeping the slave trade alive by providing the supply lines that planters needed to focus solely on their cash crops, and keeping just enough slaves to avoid  inherently shaming their trading partners for the practice.
Despite not playing a critical role in the purchase of slaves, New England colonists produced and sold the supplies necessary to allow the slave trade to operate in the first place. Taking advantage of the fact that sugar planters would rather use all of their land to grow sugar, colonists sold them the food they needed to maintain themselves and their slaves and the wood they needed to package their sugar. With no need to grow trees or comestibles, planters in the West Indies were able to expand their sugar fields to the maximum extent of their land, and thus produce further profit. More land to cultivate translated into more need for labor, and thus planters had need to turn to West Africa and acquire still more slaves. In addition to creating need for slaves, New Englanders also created the ships needed to transport them. In his book Complicity, co-author Joel Lang writes, "Like almost everything the North traded in, the hogsheads of molasses and rum were transported by water, and the revenue from shipbuilding rivaled the value of West Indian exports." Seeing as sugar planters had devoted their land and labor to growing, processing, and packaging sugarcane, they could not afford to build the ships they needed to haul in truckloads of captive slaves. Instead, the same ships that hauled molasses and rum to and from the New England colonies likely also made stops on the third leg of the trade triangle to repurpose some of the money made selling sugar product. The captives they obtained there then made the deadly voyage across the Atlantic to meet with their new fate as the laborers of the colonial economy. Perhaps the New England colonies could not have been considered a slave society in and of themselves, but even so they cannot be considered anything but the society that built, sailed, polished, and financed the backbone of society that was depended on slaves.
Though they did provide the economic support the Atlantic Slave Trade needed to survive, some may argue that they did still lead the charge in terms of not relying on slave labor within their own society. While slavery in New England was far less deadly than in the Caribbean, the colonies were far cry from the "free North" image we picture today. With a population of only ninety thousand, the North relied on the labor of approximately three thousand slaves of both African and Native American descent. While a slave population of only about three percent gave the appearance that New England was clean of slavery, at least for the most part, it also normalized the concept in the minds of its colonists and outside onlookers. In his speech "A Model of Christian Charity," John Winthrop says to New England colonizers "wee must Consider that wee shall be as a City upon a Hill, the eies of all people are uppon us". With the eyes of all people upon them, New Englanders retained just enough of a slave population to make seeing a slave a daily occurrence in a major city, but not enough to truly depend upon the labor these slaves provided. Instead of the slaveless and truly free society that we now envision when comparing the North with the South, New England colonies projected an air of indifference towards slavery which allowed them to work with idealists on both sides of the issue to their own maximum benefit. While the North never truly embraced systematic slavery as a society, it certainly took advantage of it to the best of its ability, reaping the unattainable profit of free labor and the moral satisfaction of keeping that economic backbone outside its physical borders. Complying with, profiteering from, and egging on the deadly slave plantations of the Caribbean landed New England among the worst offenders in terms of propagating the suffering and death that went along with the Atlantic Slave Trade in the New World.
As we look back on the history of slavery, images of the South, the cotton gin, and the Civil War spring to mind. On the off chance we reach as far as sugar slavery and the pre-Revolutionary war era, we can be quick to lump these images in with the South and offshore sugar plantations, overlooking perhaps the primary offender in terms of perpetuating the slave trade, our very own New England. While the North tends to get off easy, its financing, building, and supporting the slave economy allowed millions more to inherit the horror and suffering associated with the reduction of another human being to the level of private property: slavery.
By 1765, the British colonies in North America were fed up to the back teeth with Parliament's taxes. The Stamp Act had literally caused rioting in the streets, as well as complete and total boycott of British imports and the terrorizing of anyone associated with stamps, British goods, or tax collection. With nearly unanimous support, a group of ambitious colonial leaders lead the charge to unite the colonies for the common goal of repealing the act, using their colonial legislatures as tools of protest. Through defiance, these rebellious senators gleaned a sweet taste of power and fame, which ended abruptly when they accomplished their end goal. In 1766, the Stamp Act was repealed, taking the question of taxation and representation from the homes and lives of everyday citizens back to the realm of politicians and idealists. To further sour the victory, Parliament passed the Townshend Acts in 1767, restricting the power of colonial assemblies and transferring the responsibility of paying tax collectors, judges, and governors directly to Britain. With the wind taken from their rebellious sails and the powder from their legislative guns, colonial leaders scrambled to hold on to the power and influence they had worked to build. What they produced is now called patriotism. In an effort to maintain control of the colonies, colonial leaders orchestrated a sense of rebellion and resent for Britain by using propaganda to sew distrust for Britain among colonists and provoking British officials to violence.
After forcing Britain to falter on taxes, which had served as unquestionable proof of its evil, aspiring rebel leaders found themselves in need of further reason to rile up the masses in their service. They achieved this validation through the use of propaganda. Even after the Stamp Act, tensions with soldiers in port cities like Boston were at a record high. Able to work for lower pay thanks to their military salary, soldiers could outcompete locals for jobs as dock workers and deck hands, and regularly found themselves in the midst of brawls with locals or targets of rocks, snowballs, or projectile feces. When one of these incidents prompted gunfire from the redcoats involved, propagandist and resistance leader Samuel Adams seized the opportunity. With only eleven rioters hit and five killed out of a massive crowd, the shooting was labeled "The Boston Massacre", and spread like wildfire in newspapers throughout New England. In flipping the failings of individual soldiers on their home country, Adams and others were able to redirect public outrage onto the source of their own private grievances, Parliament itself. With the small blunder of a few young men, England suddenly found the colonies once again livid on its doorstep, demanding the repeal of the Townshend acts. Combined with public outcry over the Townshend duties on British luxuries such as glass, paint, and tea, the scales were tipped once again in favor of the colonists, forcing repeal in 1770. Returned to their previous position of leverage over royal officials, colonial assemblies had not only redeclared their power, but asserted another victory in the name of freedom from taxation, which now resembled an ongoing struggle. Where before colonists were complicit with British taxation, colonial leaders sewed a sense resent and distrust that allowed them to reap tremendous rewards in terms of their political sway, both in the colonies and in Britain.
Apart from rallying colonists against Britain, aspiring leaders also made a pronounced effort to openly defy and provoke British lords into militaristic action against them. Chief among these dissidents was Benjamin Franklin, who made use of his interview with the House of Lords to do just that. Though Franklin avoided open confrontation, he made an effort to emphasize colonial unity, as well as the necessity for Parliament to employ "force of arms" in order to enforce their laws. When asked if the colonists would ever agree to pay the duties imposed by the Stamp Act, Franklin replied, "No, never, unless compelled by force of arms." He repeated his answer when asked whether colonists would be open to repealing their resolutions against the Stamp Act in exchange for the repeal of the act itself, and again when asked if they could be forced to erase them. With every repetition of the phrase "no, never" or "not unless compelled", Ben drilled deeper the idea that the colonies will never willingly comply with the laws that Parliament lays out for them, thus essentially informing the lords that Britain's control was slipping. With the phrase "force of arms", he suggests a solution, that being British occupation of the colonies to establish discipline. All the while, however, Franklin claims that if the crown attempts to enforce the Stamp Act, "They will not find a rebellion; [but] they may indeed make one." Leaving the Lords without options, Franklin essentially forces them to choose between essentially relinquishing their power over the colonies, and thus giving him and other leaders independent control, or risking a rebellion which could easily result in colonial independence. In light of the possibility of losing power completely, the risk of successful rebellion becomes small enough for the Lords to swallow. Therefore, in presenting Britain with total defiance of the laws it has set out, Franklin dares the British to retaliate with force, and thus validate the possibility of independence.
When the Stamp Act gave Britain the first taste of real public outcry in the colonies, it also gave a select group of colonial leaders their first taste of real power, insubordinate to the bureaucratic machine that was England. With the first bite, they grew hooked, and when their public support ran dry, and the king took control again, they could not let that last. Through defiance, propaganda, and and well-placed charm, they planted the seeds of revolution, eventually giving light to the country that we live in today. Whether you believe independence was a well-orchestrated production or an organic product of oppression, you must admit that Founding Father sounds much more appealing than congressman, writer, player, or lawyer.
Only eleven years after independence the Continental dollar was completely worthless, and the Congress behind it had yet to fare much better. Calls for freedom and liberty had thrust upon it the responsibility of controlling a horde of self-centered and bickering states and absolutely none of the authority to do so. By 1785, New York had already attempted a treaty exchanging trading privileges for its merchants for full Spanish control of the Mississippi. The next year, a failure by Massachusetts legislatures to address widespread debt and falling wages for farmers erupted in full-scale rebellion. That summer, over two thousand farmers took up arms against the state, closing down the courts that would have seized their mortgaged homes, and held them until the following February. The writing was on the wall: the government had to be stronger. The summer of 1787 gave rise to a new form of government outlined in the Constitution, but beyond rough sketches the ideas of liberty, equality, and God-given rights remained up for discussion. With the future of their infant country in question, the visions that answered this call split people into Federalists, whose faith was in a strong central government to protect their liberties, and Republicans, who suspected centralized power and remained proponents of largely independent state governments. Out of many prominent founding fathers, Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton emerged to lead these political coalitions, coming head-to-head in the political scene time and time again. While their constituents represented the major interest groups in American politics at the time, their competing ambition and use of antagonizing tactics lead the two founders to drive their parties apart to extremes that resembled monarchy on one hand, and anarchy on the other.
With increasing need to solidify his party's support base, Alexander Hamilton appealed to a vision of central government so strong that it deeply embodied oligarchy rather than democracy. Of the many competing demographics that fueled early American politics, Hamilton opted for the support of those already born rich and powerful. In an excerpt from The Mind of Alexander Hamilton, Hamilton demonstrates his political ideology, saying "The people are turbulent and changing; they seldom judge or determine right. [...] Nothing but a permanent body can check the imprudence of democracy. Their turbulent and uncontrolling disposition requires checks." A permanent body of that shares power among themselves is by definition an oligarchy, and although a valid experiment in governance, it is not compatible with the democratic ideals set forth in the Constitution. Pursuing this philosophy, Hamilton's agenda consisted of protecting the power of his own faction. In 1798, Federalist leaders passed through Congress a dual-headed attempt to snuff out opposition via the Alien and Sedition Acts. With the Alien Act, Federalists attacked a large number of prominent Republicans who were immigrants, extending the time necessary to become a naturalized citizen, and reserving the right to deport those who were not yet citizens and were suspected of "treasonous" behavior. Likewise, the Sedition Act extended the power even to naturalized citizens, allowing the imprisonment of anyone saying things deemed "scandalous" by the very same President. In suppressing the right to speak out against his party, and threatening a significant portion of the opposing voter base, Hamilton's policies centralized so much power that they could not be challenged, thus overstepping the bounds of a democracy.
On the other hand, Thomas Jefferson, Hamilton's primary opponent, appealed to a population so suspicious of the Federalists that it's uncertain whether his ideas were actually compatible a central government whatsoever. As the primary victim of the Federalists' Sedition Act, Jefferson has been quoted saying "Were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter." His primary appeal, along with James Madison and other Republicans, was to those who saw Federalists as potential aristocrats, and thus his support was derived from showing his opposition to anything that could be interpreted as a power grab by the central government. After the swift suppression of the Whiskey Rebellion at the hands of George Washington, a victory that showed central government could accomplish what states often could not, Jefferson stated "A little rebellion now and then is a good thing, and as necessary in the political world as storms in the physical." In order to undermine a Federalist victory, Jefferson was forced to condone rebellion altogether, and reactionary though it may have been, the condoning of occasional rebellion completely undermines the authority of a central government. If citizens reserve the right to rebel, then they cannot truly be bound by any of the laws that their government makes. If the government cannot make laws that are always applicable, then there is no purpose for a central government whatsoever. Since people will always be reluctant to pay taxes, a government without authority is one that cannot collect tax, and thus will result in a similar situation to the Articles of Confederation. Thus, in order to placate fears from his constituents of the centralized power Federalists hold so dear, Jefferson had to renounce it altogether, which resulted in a style of government just as ineffective as a Federalist oligarchy.
Despite the polarization and ineffectiveness that party politics caused within the government, there are those that would argue that an American government cannot function without the political parties that drive it. Although party traditions are deeply ingrained in the political culture of the United States, the Constitution was originally designed to operate under the assumption that politicians would collaborate as oppose to partition themselves. One these designs, which was changed after the introduction of parties, is the role of Vice-President, which originally went to the runner-up for President. As it was originally imagined, the roles of President and Vice-President were to go to the two most prominent and qualified men for the position, not one front-runner from each of two opposing interest groups. Though the position of Vice-President was always vague in its role, it originally allowed the President to receive counsel from someone of prominent opinions other than his own, as opposed to the usual coordinated viewpoint associated with either his or his rival party. As Washington suggested in his farewell address, we must "indignantly [frown] upon the first dawning of every attempt to alienate any portion of our country from the rest or to enfeeble the sacred ties which now link together the various parts." The partisanship that is now so deeply ingrained in the political heritage of the United States makes it very difficult for politicians to voice more sincere opinions instead of promote their party's agenda due to the massive polarization in the voter base. Through the  confrontational ideology that has been passed down since Jefferson and Hamilton, we have eliminated an ability to allow genuine politicians to flourish and replaced it with an antagonism towards one another merely on the basis of political interest.
When the founding fathers set out to revise the Articles of Confederation, they saw before them an endless realm of possibility for the future of their new nation. Now, we can see only in sets of two. Thanks to the unquenchable ambition of early Federalists and Republicans, we have inherited a tradition of party versus party, red versus blue, that pits us against one another instead of laying the groundwork for collaboration. Intentional or not, our founding fathers managed to drive us so far apart that in two hundred years we have yet to come back together.
In early March, 1770, Ebenezer Richardson found a mob of angry schoolboys on his front doorstep. As cries of "Tory", bricks and paving stones flew through the windows, the situation deteriorated rapidly. Within hours, Richardson found himself dragged into county jail, blood on his hands. Though he would not know it, Richardson's story would be the same suffered by many colonists who struggled to pick a side in the brewing conflict, or who happened to side with the Crown. Just four days after Ebenezer Richardson found himself before and angry mob of Bostonians, a squadron of redcoats found themselves similarly engaged. In what would come to be known as The Boston Massacre, the soldiers fired into the crowd, killing and wounding several civilians. Three years later, a merchant named Francis Rotch also found himself at the hands of the mob. In December 1773, his ship, carrying tea from the East India Trading Company, was deemed in violation of a non-importation agreement among colonial merchants, and ordered to sail back to London. When he failed to obtain clearance, a band of rebellious townsfolk dumped his cargo into the harbor. This band was known as the Sons of Liberty, an organization headed by prominent citizens including Samuel Adams and Paul Revere, and funded by the wealthy merchant John Hancock. Unlike Rotch, other colonists found in violation non-importation agreements or otherwise deemed loyalists were not so lucky. Many suffered heckling at best, and at worst were subjected to the humiliating and demeaning practice of tar and feathering. By infringing on the rights of loyalist to life and property via unjust, violent, and humiliating tactics, the Sons of Liberty and other organized rebel companies trampled the loyalist spirit in the colonies, allowing revolutionary spirit to ignite in the colonies.
Using a combination of intimidation tactics and propaganda, such companies of rebel colonists forced their loyalist counterparts into submission by eliminating all their alternatives. Once a man was branded a "Tory", his options were slim. Sooner or later he was likely to be caught by a mob of angry patriots, at which point he was doomed for humiliation at very least. His best chance to save himself lay instead in assimilating to the patriot ideology. However, while colonists could change their loyalties to prevent being terrorized, British soldiers stationed in the colonies had no such escape. After one such incident, which later came to be known as the Boston Massacre, the soldiers heckled  were held in jail to await trial. In a letter to the Lieutenant-Governor of Massachusetts, Sons of Liberty founder and leader Samuel Adams petitioned "for the Tryal of the said Prisoners [to be] as early as possible in the present Term." Collective interest tends to dissipate over time, so the earlier that Adams could procure the trial, the more inflamed the incident would be in the minds of a jury. Having already been deemed a "massacre", any legal defense would have to surmount what public opinion already presumed the facts of the case. Since the legal influence of the Sons of Liberty kept retaliation from offering a viable alternative, those who fell victim to the outrage of patriots had no choice but to accept their consequence. Witnessing the unfortunate condition of those who shared their ideas, anti-revolutionaries in the colonies could only hope to avoid their fate by keeping their views silent, and thus allowing a revolutionary sentiment to become dominant throughout the colonies. With the primary source of dissenting opinion against them silenced, the Sons of Liberty could now move with impunity to advance their revolutionary agenda.
While the Sons of Liberty may have terrorized the British officials stationed in the colonies, some of their defenders might argue that these redcoats were seen as an occupying army, and thus their heckling was merely an attempt by colonists to defend their homes. Even if this were the case, the heckling was not limited to soldiers and British officials. Anyone who was found to help British officials or fail to partake in organized protests was marked with the "Tory" label and the attacks that accompanied it. In early March, 1770 a suspected informant for customs agents named Ebenezer Richardson interrupted the harassment of merchant who had imported British goods under colonial protest. A mob of schoolboys followed Richardson to his house, hurling bricks, paving stones, and eventually breaking several windows. After retreating inside his house, Richardson "appeared at one of the gutted windows with a musket [...] and fired." In a turn of events remarkably similar to the Boston Massacre of a few days later, Richardson found himself trapped by a group of angry patriots and resorted to force in an attempt to protect himself and his family. He too was dragged into county jail, but unlike the Boston Massacre soldiers, no steps were taken delay his trial, and thus he was swiftly convicted of murder. Without the backing of Great Britain to protected them from the rule of the crowd, loyalists caught up in patriotic rage were trapped between an angry mob and a vengeful jury. Isolated by their great physical distance from Britain and ideological distance from the rebellious colonies, these royalists suffered far greater consequences than either patriots or royal officials for promoting their political opinions, and thus were the true victims of this revolutionary terror campaign.
Beyond just American loyalists, even passing merchants with no stake in the conflict suffered damages to their property and livelihood when complying with patriot demands. Francis Rotch, an American merchant caught shipping British tea at the time of its protest by colonists, became the victim of a destruction of property now known as the Boston Tea Party. Upon making port in Boston harbor, Rotch's ship the Dartmouth was detained in order for the owner to pay taxes on the tea it carried. All the non-tea cargo was successfully unloaded, but the Boston Sons of Liberty would not allow Rotch to pay the Tea act tax, violating their non-importation agreement. Instead, as Adams wrote to his friend Arthur Lee, "they compelled him to apply at the custom house for clearance for his ship to London with the tea on board, and appointed ten gentlemen to see it performed." Not only was Rotch forced to apply to return his tea with the threat of ten men over his head for at the loss of shipping costs at minimum, but when his application was returned, rejected, he was forced to appeal to the governor for clearance. Turned down once more, before the tea was to be seized for failure to pay the tax, the Sons boarded the ship dressed as Native American Warriors, dumping the cargo into the harbor. For the sole crime of shipping to the wrong place at the wrong time, Francis Rotch was robbed of an expensive cargo and a piece of property that he had every right to keep. Through intimidation such as this, the Sons of Liberty forced even those who attempted to remain neutral to partake in their cause. 
Although the tactics they employed threatened loyalists' life, dignity, and property, patriots including Samuel Adams himself argued that if Parliament had not unjustly taxed the colonies, that no such tactics would have been necessary. However, while the conflict may have originally stemmed from Parliament, the loyalists in the colonies who received the abuse directed at Britain had just as little representation as the patriots. Following the events of the Boston Tea Party, delegates from the thirteen colonies convened at the First Continental Congress to discuss a plan of action for the direction in which to take the colonies. At the congress, the speaker of the Pennsylvania assembly, Joseph Galloway, proposed that the colonies be governed by a separate Parliament with its own leader. The powers vested in this American Parliament would include the right to overturn British legislation relating to the colonies, and equivalent independence to British parliament in Britain, minus the ability to declare war. While Galloway's plan was defeated at the congress, Harvard Professor Maya Jasanoff describes it as a "prime example of how loyalists possessed dynamic political visions of their own." Even more so, it is a prime example of how remarkably often loyalist and revolutionary ideologies overlapped. The only provision of Galloway's plan that differs from total American independence is the ability to declare war, which consequently would provide Britain with a false sense of control over the colonies, and thus avoid a full-scale revolution. Though the outrage and indignation that colonial patriots felt towards Parliament's taxation without representation may have been entirely justified, the anti-revolutionaries at the receiving end of this anger were not necessarily any happier. The only defining difference between the Sons of Liberty and the loyalists they harrassed was their willingness to fight the revolution which they were eventually thrown into the midst of.
Of all the destructive and demoralizing tactics employed by the Sons of Liberty and other such organized revolutionary groups, perhaps the most severe was the practice of tar and feathering. In undertaking a tar and feathering, patriots simultaneously attacked the dignity and the physical condition of their target, sending a strong message of powerlessness to the recipient. Although the process of tar and feathering was popular among the Sons of Liberty because of its ability to humiliate a victim, parading them through town bearing strong resemblance to a chicken, it could also be extremely painful for the victim. When the tar used to attach the feathers was heated, it often left severe burns and blisters on the skin of the recipient, in addition to the sharp pain caused by the heat. After the humiliation was over, "[m]ost victims of the practice lost a good deal of body hair; those lucky enough not to have strips of skin peeled away with the tar suffered severe rashes." With a great deal of employments of the time period requiring manual labor, especially near the Boston harbor where tar and feathering was common, severely painful skin injuries such as rashes and blisters could keep a man from work and pay until he was lucky enough to heal. Skin torn off left the victim vulnerable to infection, which before access to antibiotics could cause serious illness and very possibly result in death. For a man in the colonies trying to support himself and a family, the reward involved with demonstrating support for the crown and being labeled a "Tory" simply paled in comparison with the risk. With the double-headed threat of humiliation and bodily injury, the Sons of Liberty made the revolutionary cause the only sound choice for a vast majority of colonists, regardless of where their political ideas may have lain. 
With tactics including but not limited to intimidation, bodily harm, humiliation, and damage to property, the Sons of Liberty and analogous organizations forced the whole of the American colonies onto a revolutionary path that only some were prepared to follow. Though frequently when we picture the Revolutionary period, we assume the struggle was simply between America and Britain, colonies and motherland, it is crucial to understand the third perspective of the loyalists crushed between these two seemingly unstoppable forces coming head to head. In order to further illuminate this subject, it would be compelling to investigate not solely the accounts of individual loyalists coming into contact with revolutionary organizations, but also the role that loyalist factions played in shaping the events surrounding the American Revolution.
With a single cannon, a Confederate artilleryman began the torrent of bloodshed known as the Civil War, a crusade for division or for union, for freedom or for liberty that turned brother against brother and friend against friend. Neither side could stand to be wrong, so with cries of "traitors!" and...hundreds of thousands of young men marched off to slaughter their ex-countrymen in a war that would become the bloodiest in American history. On the Union side the logic was simple: the country had a right to self-preservation, and Southern secession presented a critical threat to the safety of the country. On the Confederate side, variations on the theme of rights, defense of property, and Northern overreach emerged in the face of a Republican administration, which presented a direct threat to the institution of Slavery. While politicians flaunted grandiose language like Defense of the Constitution and Right to Own Property, the men on the end of the gun clung to something more primal: neither side could afford to lose. While in his piece We Were in Earnest, James McPherson references the carnal rage that prompted Southern soldiers to defend home and hearth, he fails to mention that Union fighters had a no less instinctive drive to do the same. Secession had challenged the authority of the Constitution, supreme law of the land, upon which all other institutions of Union government leaned for support. In securing their own authority, Southern states had undermined that of all Northern government, and in failing to enforce its authority the Union risked anarchy. Through thick and thin, soldiers on either side fought and died for a cause that barely impacted their lives because failure was unthinkable. Despite the disparity of reasons and beliefs that lead soldiers on both sides to abandon democracy and make war against each other, each saw it through to the bitter end because Northerners and Southerners alike felt the need to defend their homes.
When fighting began, the North, prepared to crush the Confederacy and score an easy victory, found themselves confronted by a by an aggressive force of rebels fueled by a visceral drive to protect their heartland. Though some rebels fought to preserve their tradition of slavery, the overwhelming force that turned brother against brother was the allegiance to their state and their home. In December of 1860, as South Carolina seceded from the Union, a pair brothers from the Steedman family felt their loyalties tear them in opposite directions. James, a deep Southern planter, wrote Charles, a Union naval officer, a letter in which he declared, "I felt that my blood was cold in my veins... my Brother a Traitor to his Mother Country… where lie the bones of his Father, Mother, & many dear relatives." For Confederates, family was the defining factor of country, and this thought they carried with them into battle. When bullets began to fly, rebels fought for their families and for their way of life, which even if they did not fully agree with, was everything that they knew. A well-known abolitionist in his personal beliefs, Lincoln's election presented the possibility that of overstepping his bounds and interfering with what was considered a central institution in Southern life. Even those who opposed slavery had reason to fear, as Lincoln's use of force against seceded states was viewed as "sending men [there] to butcher [their] friends and relations." Combined with the intent of the Union armies to physically invade the South in order to quell the rebellion, perceived invasion of the Southern way of life served only to boil a fury in the hearts of the lower class southerners who actually fought the war. Under the impression that their safety, property, family, and way of life were all on the line, rebel soldiers could not afford surrender, and thus their numbers and their intensity could never dwindle until none were left to continue fighting.
Although the campaign of the North was not as much a physical defense of home, the widespread belief that the remainder of the Union would collapse if the Southern states were not readmitted created a sense of defense of country that was equally potent. At the dawn of the war, leaders and intellectuals in the North were often tormented with the dilemma of whether a government must be too strong to protect all the liberties of its people, or too weak to protect itself. For common folk, on the other hand, the choice was an easy one. An Indiana lawyer and later Union officer told his wife in April of 1861, "it is better to have war for one year than anarchy and revolution for fifty years--If the government should suffer rebels to go on with their work with impunity there would be no end to it & in a short time we would be without any law or order." If the federal government could allow a set of states to immunizes itself to the laws binding the rest of the country, they could not very well stop any individual or organization from doing the same. Under this precedent, any thief, murderer, or arsonist seeking to evade punishment could do so simply by declaring themselves seceded from the United States and therefore unbound by the laws thereof. Moreover, since the Confederates took with them a sizeable portion of land that was previously taxable territory belonging to the United States, any planter wishing to evade taxes could simply declare their own independent nation, thus rendering all  of the country's laws and taxes optional and therefore useless. As a Philadelphia textile mill worker wrote, "There would have to be another form of a constitution wrote and after it was written who would obey it?" Union soldiers fought not only against Confederate rebellion, but against rebellion in general, which they feared would destroy their country. Against anarchy, rather than invasion, Northerners defended their homes, with a fervor no less desperate or total than that of the South.
Overlooking the total urgency with which both sides defended their way of life, many modern perceptions of the Civil War depict it as the North's struggle to root out racism and slavery, storming through the South and bringing freedom to slaves throughout the country. While abolition was a major step forward in terms of the rights of colored people, it was in no way nearly the grandiose moral victory that we choose to credit it with. In many ways, working long, difficult hours for brutal masters without enough water or nutrition was just as horrifying as working the same hours with the same supplies for the Union army, and the wage difference was minimal. Most ex-slaves were put back to work in fields leased from white planters that had declared their loyalty to the Union, and freedmen had no say in the contracts that landed them there. After inspecting one of the contraband camps where freedmen were kept, a missionary commented, "The poor negroes die as fast as ever. [...] The children are all emaciated to the last degree and have such violent coughs and dysenteries that few survive." In addition, although emancipation was a private priority of Lincoln's, it made his political agenda only when it was convenient for the war effort. In his first inaugural address, Lincoln assured, "I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the states where it exists." Even once emancipation was put into effect, it only applied to states "in rebellion against the United States" after a designated period of time. Despite what Southerners feared, Lincoln remained well within the limits of his power and gave every opportunity for states to retain their slaves at the expense of their surrender. Though the threat of abolition gave the initial cause for secession, it did not motivate countrymen to slaughter and conquer their fellow countrymen in the same way that fear for the safety of their homes and families could.
When we remember the Civil War to this day, we often picture the righteous cause of North against South and free states against slave states. What we forget when we paint the Confederates as despicable racists is that the common man, the man who died on the battlefield, was not the slaveholder but rather the simple man who was brave enough to fight and die for his family. On either side, the pure guttural rage that surged from such a massive enemy threat so close to home lead men to march and fight until the end to protect what they saw as their home and country.
At the twilight of the nineteenth century, the hundred-year dream of Manifest Destiny was finally coming to fruition. The United States had expanded rapidly, from its origins in thirteen diminutive colonies subsisting on the Eastern edge of an unfamiliar continent to a vast empire stretching from coast to coast, nearly tearing itself apart in the process. With the turn of the century on the horizon, the nation's growing pains began to ease, giving way to unified railroads, supply routes, and communication lines that wove together the myriad pieces of a recently reconstructed country. Geographical divisions began to gloss over as national attention, and with it controversy, turned to the conquests of Cuba, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines from Spain. The inferiority of colored foreigners became widely accepted in lieu of a new surge of imperialism, and the myth of the American Dream sprung up alongside it to remind Americans of their own moral invincibility and national exceptionalism. All the racism, delusion, and self-adoration in the world, however, could not distract the working citizen from his deep-seated primal need to survive. Food, water, and shelter remained basic requirements to live, and each of these required not only a sum of money, but a steady stream thereof in order to satisfy rent and recurring biological needs. Thus, above liberty or pursuit of happiness, freedom came down first and foremost to the basic need to live, and life became synonymous with work. Soon, the rifts in society ceased to be drawn up and down a map, but rather up and down the economic ladder, between those who provided the employment people needed to survive, and those who would sacrifice all other freedoms for their right to a job and a paycheck. Twisting definitions of freedom from previous eras, the wealthy elite of the Gilded Age manufactured the concept of Freedom of Contract. Once widely accepted, employers had effectively enslaved the working class by creating a dependence on jobs which they alone controlled, all the while reserving the right to hire the workers with least reluctance to surrender their freedoms.
In contrast to the agrarian system, under which an insatiable need for workers gave rise to forms of forced labor such as slavery, apprenticeship, and sharecropping, the industrial economy produced a labor surplus, leaving the unskilled and unemployed without a way to support themselves. As jobs in manufacturing became increasingly common, working men began to find they had many similar gripes about their professions. When conditions deteriorated, labor unions emerged as organizations through which strikes and boycotts could be coordinated, as well as representatives of the common interests of working folk in a particular occupation. Working without any precedent, employers of the Gilded Age often relied on ten to twelve hour workdays in an attempt to maximize profit, which in addition to overworking the employed man, had the effect of reducing the number of people over which a workload could be split. Coming from primarily agricultural histories, working-class people found for the first time that merely their strength and willingness to work did not guarantee employment, as it did in the fields, but rather fostered fierce competition. As Samuel Gompers wrote in an address to the Knights of Labor, "there is more than a million of our brothers and sisters—able-bodied men and women—on the streets, and on the highways and byways of our country willing to work but cannot find it." For the fortunate, who were able to land jobs, the sense that a profession and a paycheck were a privilege and not a right guaranteed a sense a gratitude towards employers, even in the face of low pay for long hours. Even those who avoided feeling indebted to their effective owners could only afford to leave their jobs when they had alternate options, which were far from guaranteed. As long as unemployment remained a menacing possibility, employers of the late nineteenth century effectively owned their workers, able to subject them to terms of their choosing as any work at all improved upon the alternative.
Though the development of an ultra-poor unemployed class was an unfortunate product of the Gilded Age, enthusiasts of the era may argue that the industrialization of the country improved living and working conditions on average, thus improving the quality of life for Americans as a whole. The rapid urbanization of the cities where people were beginning to live, however, allowed not only the gloominess of the slums that the poor inhabited, but also their filth and population density to threaten the safety and quality of life of the rest of society. In 1890, a journalist named Jacob Riis published an article inviting the reader to explore a typical Chicago slum with him, as he adopted the rare perspective of the ultra-poor. Riis described an outbreak of cholera in one of the most notoriously unhealthy housing projects he explored, writing "the mortality rate approached 200 per 1,000 inhabitants." Though the extremely death tolls were limited to the more unsanitary parts of the city, by nature cholera and disease in general are passed from person to person. With the slums serving as incubators in which one in twenty percent of residents are dying from, let alone contracting a certain disease, the health risk for the city as a whole begins to skyrocket. Though the threat of disease often went unnoticed as a silent killer, the natural disasters that became magnified by the ill-prepared slums made themselves loud and clear. Tearing through dense complexes of wooden buildings, the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, described by witnesses as "[t]he dogs of hell [...] upon the housetops… bounding from one to another," destroyed the city's entire business district and a third of its residential buildings. Whether for plague or for hellfire, the slums of Chicago provided an explosive cradle for disaster, fueled by the tightly packed groupings of bodies and buildings reserved for lowest classes of society.
While the unfortunate living conditions of the underpaid and altogether unemployed threatened the health of cities as a whole, to the wealthy they held value in serving as an example for workers thinking to dissent against their employers. As industrialization took hold and wealthy business owners began to develop their political influence, the construct of Freedom of Contract overtook other forms of freedom as the dominant opinion in the courts. In the case of Lochner v. New York, the Supreme Court ruled that "Under [the Fourteenth Amendment] no State can deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law. The right to purchase or sell labor is protected by this amendment..." While Justice Peckham claimed the intent of the decision was to permit industrious employees to earn extra money on the side by working additional hours, the effect was the opposite. Since individuals could not be restricted from putting in further effort, corporations seized on the opportunity to expect an elevated standard of effort from all their employees, taking the form of more hours for no additional pay. With millions of unemployed laborers on the streets, workers were easy to replace, and thus could make no protest against their worsened conditions lest they face the sack. Meanwhile, because the poor and the jobless were often regarded as the bottom rung of society, many wealthy and middle-class employers considered them unworthy of help, and thus left them to suffer. As steel tycoon Andrew Carnegie wrote, "Those worthy of assistance, except in rare cases, seldom require assistance. The really valuable men of the race never do, except in cases of accident or sudden change." As despicable as working conditions were or as low as wages got, any job at all was always preferable to the alternative, with no source of income and no sympathy from the upper class. Via the two-pronged deathtrap of unemployment, powerful tycoons like Carnegie transformed what was intended to be the freedom to work into the expectation to renounce all freedom, becoming a cog in the capitalist wheel in exchange for the badge of worth in a new society.
Even in its name, the American conception that the Gilded Age was the golden age, the ultimate era of prosperity and the beacon of national excellence that we all must strive toward, remains prevalent. Less than a week ago, a wealthy businessman was inaugurated into the White House on the promise to "Make America Great Again". What we must realize, however, is that while for massive corporations and their owners such as our President himself, the dawn of industrialism was a beautiful extremely profitable time, for those lower and middle-class workers caught under their thumb, the greatness was a great deal less palpable. By the dawn of the twentieth century, America's newly forged aristocracy turned freedom on its head, combining distorted ideals with economic reality to ensure their workers were guaranteed the right and the necessity to forgo any and all their rights from times past.
Three years into the First World War, the greatest universal power grab Europe had ever seen, Russia's booming war machine was cut down from the inside, forfeiting hundreds of millions of acres of land. The axe was wielded first by democrats and swiftly passed to Communists as revolution after revolution knocked the country repeatedly off its feet and withdrew any hope of contending with the greatest military powers on the continent. Still hemorrhaging on the inside, the newly founded Soviet Union marked the first swell in a tide of revolution that hoped to sweep the globe, overturning the evils of capitalism for a greater and truer freedom. Offering to eliminate the cost of living and the motive of profit, socialism had captured the imaginations of the poor and especially the disenfranchised working class that had been toying with the idea of uniting to a common end since the dawn of the Industrial Revolution. Only in the United States, where the oppression and the delusion of the disenfranchised had been practiced to perfection time and time again, could the tide of social upheaval begin to be stifled once more. Making his way up from labor strikes to union leadership to political representation, a man named Eugene Debs came to be known as the champion of the American working man. Debs ran for President four times between 1900 and 1912, rocketing the Socialist party's voter base from tens of thousands in his first campaign to nearly a million in his last, remaining a major party leader after relinquishing the candidacy and speaking often at rallies. The year of the Russian Revolution, however, marked the first time Debs's Socialists were established as a priority threat, and in the next year Debs was imprisoned under the Espionage Act, his headless party left to wither and die. Through a blatant violation of the Freedom of Speech, the United States silenced the Socialist party in one fell swoop, establishing a precedent that would defend its capitalist institutions for as long as it remained in place.
For Debs, a fair trial was impossible to ensure due to the extent to which his arrest and trial were sensationalized by an overwhelming majority of popular newspapers of the time. On his campaign trail, Debs had never been an avid supporter of the capitalist press, developing lasting feuds that later came to haunt him. Debs's initial arrest came at the hands of a young reporter and ardent patriot named Clyde Miller, for the Cleveland Plain Dealer, who arrived at Debs's Canton Speech with the intent to expose a violent rebel. When Miller urged his friend and a federal prosecutor, Edwin Wertz to indict this radical, he had not gathered nearly enough information to produce a conviction. Nevertheless, upon receiving word that Debs was under scrutiny, the Washington Post inflamed the issue, publishing an article titled "DEBS INVITES ARREST: Will Not Claim Innocence if Accused." Though woefully untrue, the article had the dual effect of putting Wertz in an unexpectedly high-profile case and planting the seeds of guilt in the public eye. For Wertz, the overwhelmingly public nature of the case, combined with the subtitle, "Will Not Claim Innocence if Accused," suggested that failure to convict Debs would be an embarrassment on a colossal scale, the equivalent of losing a duel to a dead man. On the public's side, the sweeping declaration that Debs would not argue his innocence made the controversy of the case not whether or not Debs was guilty, but rather whether the guilty Debs should be sent to prison. Publishing a premature verdict that every jury member would at least glance at in his morning paper, the Washington Post circumvented the justice system, thus avoiding the difficult question of civil liberties in favor of a "Catch Debs!" narrative.
While newspaper sensationalization of the Debs case nullified the fairness of his trial, fervent patriots might argue that with over a million Americans in support of his campaign, at least one of the twelve jury members should have identified with his cause. Although Debs's support was widespread, the lower working class that he appealed to was a largely marginalized and unpopular group of people, and this public discredit made it difficult to voice support for him in public. Feeding off the rising interest in socialism that Debs's presidential campaigns gathered, the New York Times published an article detailing the many facets of socialism. The article begins by establishing a tone of credibility and impartiality, citing several socialist writings that outline the party's basic philosophy, "The Socialist Party does not disguise the fact that its ultimate aim is the abolition of rent, interest, and profit, and the collective ownership and operation of all the monopolized industries in the Nation." The article progresses, expressing several pointed yet valid questions aimed to defeat the ideology behind the party. Then, towards its final paragraphs, the article shifts to a blatantly aggressive message, pronouncing:
Socialism, now that its aims have come to be so frankly avowed, means nothing less than the destruction of the present social order, and with it the opportunities which Americans, native and foreign born alike, have hitherto enjoyed to make something for themselves and of themselves.
All of a sudden, the casual reader whose interest in this new ideology was piqued finds themselves trying to swallow the unraveling of the present social order in a matter of one page, and this effect was shocking enough to repel many would-be socialists and particularly socialist sympathizers. Circulating such a potent anti-socialist ideology, newspapers like the New York Times made it extremely difficult for Debs's supporters to identify themselves in his defense, thus suppressing a significant portion of supporters that could very well have advocated strongly for him on a jury.
Although at the end of his career, popular newspapers brought about Debs's condemnation, their nearly unanimous position in his opposition was far from a random occurrence. In 1917, the same year that the Russian Revolution established the first real socialist government, Congress passed a set of legislation prohibiting the speaking or printing of any material with the effect of discouraging participation in the United States war effort. A year later, the act was amended to become the Sedition Act of 1918, declaring:
Whoever, when the United States is at war [...] shall wilfully utter, print, write or publish any disloyal, profane, scurrilous or abusive language about the form of government of the United States [...] shall be punished by a fine of not more than ten thousand dollars or imprisonment for not more than twenty years, or both.
Above all else, newspapers were primarily capitalist organizations, and as such they were interested in turning the maximum profit from their publications, exhibited in their sensationalized article titles. With the New York Times publishing "DEBS BEHIND PRISON BARS", the Chicago Daily Tribune writing "WHERE IS MR. DEBS?", and the New York Tribune sporting "THE BOASTINGS OF DEBS" as front page news, no business-savvy newspaper would risk vaporizing ten thousand dollars simply to print a socialist perspective. With respect to a twenty-year prison term, an editor could not risk losing a skilled reporter or even his own freedom in exchange for Debs's, and thus the climate in the newspaper industry shifted towards an extremely one-sided and particularly unflattering caricature of the Socialist Party. With a set of laws that even in wartime drew controversy for their encroachment on the First Amendment, the United States employed an economic device to suppress every form of writing but nationalist propaganda, and thereby created a hostile environment for all radicals, let alone Debs's variety.
Despite Congress's chokehold on the economic aspect of anti-capitalist reporting, many diehard capitalists would contend that a newspaper centered upon the evils of profit should not be concerned with turning a profit anyway, and thus the Sedition Act should be relatively harmless. Though socialist newspapers were not as motivated by the legislation's attacks on profit, the new law generated an atmosphere of caution that made it extremely difficult for dissenting newspapers to operate on a scale large enough to obtain significant influence. The threat to personal freedom presented by the Sedition Act put anyone interviewed by a socialist newspaper in a very difficult position, regardless of their conviction to socialism. Even Eugene Debs, leader of the party, said with regards to his visit to Ohio for his Canton Speech, "I'll take about two jumps and they'll nail me, but that's all right." While Debs was willing and able to martyr himself for his beliefs, many of his comrades lived in circumstances that did not allow them to do so, as the majority of his followers were poor laborers trying to support their families. In the battle between conviction and freedom, conviction paid the price, and very few average people were willing to speak out against the government. Without witnesses or testimonials to back their claims, socialist media came to be associated with the ramblings of a few lunatics instead of the trustworthy bearer of facts as its capitalist counterparts were perceived. So implanted was this image that years later, upon Debs's release from prison the New York Times wrote, "A shallow, howling minority has had its way." Though the law did not attack diehard socialist publications through economic means, it silenced them by means of destroying their credibility, an aspect that was already vulnerable due to the radical ideas that socialism promoted. Thus, the true genius of the Sedition Act was that it not only caused a one-sided narrative to stem from the publications of a capital-oriented press, but forced the same narrative to flow from the people back to the press, increasing the difficulty of maintaining credibility among socialists exponentially.
Regardless of the decidedly nefarious circumstances that engineered Debs's imprisonment, his isolation from the working class failed to make a martyr of Debs as he had hoped, and instead served to leave the Socialist Party in a dying state, without the leadership and charisma it needed to uphold a strong campaign. For purposes of silencing dissent, the United States knew Debs's capture would have the equivalent effect of arresting each of his nearly one million supporters, and applied its efforts proportionally. Prosecutor and Assistant District Attorney Kavanaugh saw to the case with a personal fervor, exclaiming in his opening address to the jury, "This man is the palpitating pulse of the sedition crusade. By his words he shall be judged and by his words he shall be condemned." Once he arrived in his cell block, Debs was isolated to the extreme from the world at large, having no access to newspapers or correspondence of any sort apart from a letter to his family mailed once weekly. Nevertheless, he felt an overwhelming sense of connection with the world around him, telling a biographer David Karsner in one of his visits:
I can feel the vibrations of the warm, firm and tender hearts beating in unison for freedom and democracy all over the world. The swelling note of their song reverberates through these corridors, and I know they are active. At night, in my prison cell I can feel the warm and tender fingers of little children upon my face, and all these things give me strength and courage to face the future, whatever it may hold, with serenity and composure.
Unfortunately, Debs's vision extended only as far as the stone and steel walls that contained him. The Socialist Party in the United States took their leader's example as a warning shot, abandoning their support of the official socialist position, which opposed the nation's war efforts on the grounds that they were vain excursions carried out solely for the sake of capital. Having departed from the universal socialist perspective and at the same time lost the support of their most influential leader and the backbone of their workers' movement, ideologies began to clash within the party and cause conflicts. By 1919, the Socialist Party had splintered, generating vicious antagonism between separated Communists and original Socialists which only served to drive the two factions farther from one another and divide their support bases. Removing Debs from public life at the height of his campaign, the United States had effectively delayed the problem of socialism until its relevance was minimal, instantly deflating the momentum of a working class that had finally learned to join together. Placing a temporary suspension on the Bill of Rights, a government reliant on capitalism acted in its own defense, but at the same time forcefully terminated the greatest peaceful uprising the nation had ever seen.
With persecution, intimidation, and calculated strikes against the socialist agenda, the United States unwaveringly struck down a united front of workers that threatened to reshape its political landscape. Sacrificing the inalienable rights of just the right man, the government managed to protect a way of life that millions of others were not willing to give up, but all the while destroyed the freedom of a million others to believe. Perhaps socialism was doomed to failure in time, but in keeping with the rights to Freedom of Speech and of Press, the movement should have been allowed to die of its own accord. Had the government not acted to preemptively silence its working class, the events following the Progressive Era might very well have ushered them into a position of power to this day.
